---
title: My Long Run Routine
---

One of my goals in 2023 was to run the San Francisco Marathon. Over the past few months of training, I've come to realize the long run is the anchor. It is the primary force that builds the endurance to last all 26.2 miles. 


My longest run prior to training was 7 miles, so I had a ways to go. I made many mistakes in the training process, but iterated and adjusted to create a solid routine to have really enjoyable long run sessions. Because of the intensity of these runs, especially as someone who had very little experience with long distances, I prioritized preparation, strategy, and recovery to get the best out of myself every week.

## Preparation
I did my long runs on Monday mornings, so I did my best to recover on the weekends. This meant getting 8+ hours of sleep, running relatively lower mileage, and planning to do my cross-training on Sundays (swimming) so I didn't have sore legs. 

The Monday timeslot was strategic for me as it leveraged my already existing habits. I slept more on the weekends anyways and had more time on Sundays to get to the pool to swim. I also did a mid-distance (6-9 miles) run on Friday, so I had plenty of time to recover between those. Every other run during the week was easy.

The night before, I would lay out my favorite running gear so I could quickly change without stressing.

I set my alarm 1.5 hours before I aimed to start running. So, a 4 AM wake up call to mimic a 5:30 AM start time on race day. This also gives me time to make my pre-run breakfast and have time to digest so I can start my run feeling nourished without being full.

I've tinkered with my pre-run breakfast, but I've found a combo that works for me:

* Banana
* 1 slice sourdough
* Spoon of almond butter
* Spoon of honey
* Cup of coffee

It's a healthy carb-heavy meal that fuels my run. It also tastes great, which is a huge motivator for getting up early to run.

Finally, before I step out, I eat a [Honey Stinger waffle](https://www.amazon.com/Honey-Stinger-Organic-Waffle-Ounce/dp/B004F1LNDI/ref=asc_df_B004F1LNDI/?tag=hyprod-20&linkCode=df0&hvadid=312123689741&hvpos=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=17626916986996299270&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9031944&hvtargid=pla-523461151423&psc=1&tag=&ref=&adgrpid=61925956717&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvadid=312123689741&hvpos=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=17626916986996299270&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9031944&hvtargid=pla-523461151423) for some extra fast-acting carbs. 

Throughout my meal, I'm constantly sipping water.

## Running Strategy
Finally, we can get to the run.

With a lot of trial and error, I've found that I do really well by taking the first mile easy and going into marathon pace starting in mile two.

I try to "negative split": having a faster time in the second half of the run than the first. Because I'll obviously be fatigued halfway through, it takes extra attention to maintain a relaxed pace for the first half and then kick into a higher gear for the back half.

I try to do the back half on marathon-pace (for the SF Marathon, I'm aiming to run a 7:45 pace), except fot the last mile, where I sprint. The fast finish is tiring, but it has given me confidence that I will have the endurance to finish the marathon strong on race day.

I take a [GU Energy Gel](https://www.amazon.com/GU-Energy-Original-Nutrition-Raspberry/dp/B0BTJBFK77/ref=sr_1_5?hvadid=616863157356&hvdev=c&hvlocphy=9031944&hvnetw=g&hvqmt=e&hvrand=12902177112072794276&hvtargid=kwd-2085437648&hydadcr=24661_13611822&keywords=gu+energy+gels&qid=1689818894&rdc=1&sr=8-5) every 10 miles. I've found that taking it 10 miles in provides the energy boost without feeling bloated. I don't love the taste, but it's better than bonking!

## Recovery
The recovery process starts the second I finish the run. Or at least after I check Strava ([follow me!](https://www.strava.com/athletes/67490253)). I immediately drink water and take a shower to get out of the sweaty clothes. 

After that, I make my go-to post-run breakfast, an avocado omelette:

* 1 avocado
* 1 cup egg whites
* 1 whole egg
* salsa or whatever I have in the fridge

This provides the fats and proteins needed for muscle recovery. I sometimes eat fruit on the side for some healthy carbs.

Additonally, I stretch on a foam roller. I've found that this prevents soreness for me so I'm able to get the weekly mileage for the rest of the week, and come back rested for my next long run.

That's pretty much it! It's all about sleeping well, eating clean, and running smart! My marathon is next week, so hopefully I can break 3:45!

Here's a video about my long runs.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BsZyQB_4Bn4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
